MouseEvent.mozInputSource
=========================

**Non-standard**

This feature is non-standard and is not on a standards track. Do not use it on production sites facing the Web: it will not work for every user. There may also be large incompatibilities between implementations and the behavior may change in the future.

The `MouseEvent.mozInputSource` read-only property on [`MouseEvent`](../mouseevent) provides information indicating the type of device that generated the event. This lets you, for example, determine whether a mouse event was generated by an actual mouse or by a touch event (which might affect the degree of accuracy with which you interpret the coordinates associated with the event).

Syntax
------

    var source = instanceOfMouseEvent.mozInputSource;

### Return value

The following values are possible.

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Constant name</th><th>Value</th><th>Desription</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><code>MOZ_SOURCE_UNKNOWN</code></td><td>0</td><td>The input device is unknown.</td></tr><tr class="even"><td><code>MOZ_SOURCE_MOUSE</code></td><td>1</td><td>The event was generated by a mouse (or mouse-like device).</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td><code>MOZ_SOURCE_PEN</code></td><td>2</td><td>The event was generated by a pen on a tablet.</td></tr><tr class="even"><td><code>MOZ_SOURCE_ERASER</code></td><td>3</td><td>The event was generated by an eraser on a tablet.</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td><code>MOZ_SOURCE_CURSOR</code></td><td>4</td><td>The event was generated by a cursor.</td></tr><tr class="even"><td><code>MOZ_SOURCE_TOUCH</code></td><td>5</td><td>The event was generated on a touch interface.</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td><code>MOZ_SOURCE_KEYBOARD</code></td><td>6</td><td>The event was generated by a keyboard.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Specifications
--------------

Not part of any specification.

See also
--------

-   [`MouseEvent`](../mouseevent)

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MouseEvent/mozInputSource" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MouseEvent/mozInputSource</a>
