accesskey
=========

The `accesskey` [global attribute](../global_attributes) provides a hint for generating a keyboard shortcut for the current element. The attribute value must consist of a single printable character (which includes accented and other characters that can be generated by the keyboard).

**Note**: In the WHATWG spec, it says you can specify multiple space-separated characters, and the browser will use the first one it supports. However, this does not work in most browsers. IE/Edge uses the first one it supports without problems, provided there are no conflicts with other commands.

The way to activate the accesskey depends on the browser and its platform:

Windows

Linux

Mac

Firefox

Alt + Shift + *key*

On Firefox 57 or newer: Control + Option + *key* or Control + Alt + *key*  
On Firefox 14 or newer: Control + Alt + *key*  
On Firefox 13 or older: Control + *key*

Internet Explorer

Alt + *key*  
Alt + Shift + *key*

N/A

Edge

N/A

Control + Option + *key*  
Control + Option + Shift + *key*

Google Chrome

Alt + *key*

Safari

N/A

Opera 15+

Alt + *key*

Control + Alt + *key*

Opera 12

Shift + Esc opens a contents list which are accessible by accesskey, then, can choose an item by pressing *key*

Accessibility concerns
----------------------

In addition to poor browser support, there are numerous concerns with the `accesskey` attribute:

-   An `accesskey` value can conflict with a system or browser keyboard shortcut, or assistive technology functionality. What may work for one combination of operating system, assistive technology, and browser may not work with other combinations.
-   Certain `accesskey` values may not be present on certain keyboards, especially when internationalization is a concern. So adapting to specific languages could cause further problems.
-   `accesskey` values that rely on numbers may be confusing to individuals experiencing cognitive concerns, where the number doesn't have a logical association with the functionality it triggers.
-   Informing the user that `accesskey`s are present, so that they are aware of the functionality. If the system lacks a method of notifying the user about this feature, the user might accidentally activate `accesskey`s.

Because of these issues, it is generally advised not to use `accesskey`s for most general-purpose websites and web apps.

-   [WebAIM: Keyboard Accessibility - Accesskey](https://webaim.org/techniques/keyboard/accesskey#spec)

Specifications
--------------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/interaction.html#the-accesskey-attribute">HTML Living Standard<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'accesskey' in that specification.</span></a></td></tr></tbody></table>

Browser compatibility
---------------------

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`accesskey`

Yes

12

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

See also
--------

-   [`Element.accessKey`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/accessKey)
-   [`HTMLElement.accessKeyLabel`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/accessKeyLabel)
-   All [global attributes](../global_attributes).
-   `aria-keyshortcuts`

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/accesskey" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/accesskey</a>
