XRSession.visibilityState
=========================

**Secure context**

This feature is available only in [secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts) (HTTPS), in some or all [supporting browsers](#browser_compatibility).

The *read-only* `visibilityState` property of the [`XRSession`](../xrsession) interface is a string indicating whether the WebXR content is currently visible to the user, and if it is, whether it's the primary focus.

Every time the visibility state changes, a [`visibilitychange`](visibilitychange_event) event is fired on the [`XRSession`](../xrsession) object.

Syntax
------

    visibilityState = xrSession.visibilityState;

### Value

A [`DOMString`](../domstring) containing one of the values defined in the enumerated type [`XRVisibilityState`](../xrvisibilitystate); this string indicates whether or not the XR content is visible to the user and if it is, whether or not it's currently the primary focus.

The possible values of `visibilityState` are:

`hidden`  
The virtual scene generated by the [`XRSession`](../xrsession) is not currently visible to the user, so its [`requestAnimationFrame()`](requestanimationframe) callbacks are *not* being executed until the[`visibilityState`](visibilitystate) changes. Input controllers are *not* being handled for the session.

`visible`  
The virtual scene rendered by the [`XRSession`](../xrsession) is currently visible to the user and is the primary focus of the user's attention. To that end, the session's [`requestAnimationFrame()`](requestanimationframe) callbacks are being processed at the XR device's native refresh rate and input controllers are being processed as normal.

`visible-blurred`  
While the virtual scene rendered by the [`XRSession`](../xrsession) may currently be visible to the user, it is not the user's primary focus at the moment; it's also possible the session is not currently visible at all. In order to optimize resource utilization, the [user agent](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/User_agent) may be handling the session's [`requestAnimationFrame()`](requestanimationframe) callbacks at a throttled rate. Input controllers are *not* being processed for the session.

Usage notes
-----------

It's important to keep in mind that because an immersive WebXR session is potentially being shown using a different display than the HTML document in which it's running (such as when being shown on a headset), the value of a session's `visibilityState` may not necessarily be the same as the owning *[`document`](../document)'s* [`visibilityState`](../document/visibilitystate). For instance, if the viewer is using a headset tethered to a computer and the immersive scene is obscured by a configuration UI, the user could peek out from behind the headset and still be able to see the document itself on their computer's monitor.

Specifications
--------------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://immersive-web.github.io/webxr/#dom-xrsession-visibilitystate">WebXR Device API<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'XRSession.visibilityState' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-wd">Working Draft</span></td><td>Initial definition.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Browser compatibility
---------------------

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`visibilityState`

79

79

No

No

No

No

No

79

No

No

No

11.2

See also
--------

-   [`XRSession.onvisibilitychange`](onvisibilitychange)
-   [`visibilitychange`](visibilitychange_event) event

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XRSession/visibilityState" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XRSession/visibilityState</a>
