RTCPeerConnection.currentLocalDescription
=========================================

The read-only property `RTCPeerConnection.currentLocalDescription` returns an [`RTCSessionDescription`](../rtcsessiondescription) object describing the local end of the connection as it was most recently successfully negotiated since the last time the [`RTCPeerConnection`](../rtcpeerconnection) finished negotiating and connecting to a remote peer. Also included is a list of any ICE candidates that may already have been generated by the ICE agent since the offer or answer represented by the description was first instantiated.

To change the `currentLocalDescription`, call [`RTCPeerConnection.setLocalDescription()`](setlocaldescription), which triggers a series of events which leads to this value being set. For details on what exactly happens and why the change isn't necessarily instantaneous, see [Pending and current descriptions](#) in [WebRTC connectivity](../webrtc_api/connectivity).

Unlike [`RTCPeerConnection.localDescription`](localdescription), this value represents the actual current state of the local end of the connection; `localDescription` may specify a description which the connection is currently in the process of switching over to.

Syntax
------

    sessionDescription = RTCPeerConnection.currentLocalDescription;

### Return value

The current description of the local end of the connection, if one has been set. If none has been successfully set, this value is `null`.

Example
-------

This example looks at the `currentLocalDescription` and displays an alert containing the [`RTCSessionDescription`](../rtcsessiondescription) object's `type` and `sdp` fields.

    var pc = new RTCPeerConnection();
    …
    var sd = pc.currentLocalDescription;
    if (sd) {
      alert("Local session: type='" +
            sd.type + "'; sdp description='" +
            sd.sdp + "'");
    }
    else {
      alert("No local session yet.");
    }

Specifications
--------------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://w3c.github.io/webrtc-pc/#dom-peerconnection-currentlocaldesc">WebRTC 1.0: Real-time Communication Between Browsers<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'RTCPeerConnection.currentLocalDescription' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-cr">Candidate Recommendation</span></td><td>Initial specification.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Browser compatibility
---------------------

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`currentLocalDescription`

70

79

22

No

43

Promise-based version.

37-43

11

70

70

44

43

Promise-based version.

37-43

11

6.0

The addition of `currentLocalDescription` and [`pendingLocalDescription`](pendinglocaldescription) to the WebRTC spec is relatively recent. In browsers which don't support them, just use [`localDescription`](localdescription).

See also
--------

-   [`RTCPeerConnection.setLocalDescription()`](setlocaldescription), [`RTCPeerConnection.pendingLocalDescription`](pendinglocaldescription), [`RTCPeerConnection.localDescription`](localdescription)
-   [`RTCPeerConnection.setRemoteDescription()`](setremotedescription), [`RTCPeerConnection.remoteDescription`](remotedescription), [`RTCPeerConnection.pendingRemoteDescription`](pendingremotedescription), [`RTCPeerConnection.currentRemoteDescription`](currentremotedescription)
-   [WebRTC](../webrtc_api)

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection/currentLocalDescription" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection/currentLocalDescription</a>
