RTCPeerConnection: identityresult event
=======================================

**Deprecated**

This feature is no longer recommended. Though some browsers might still support it, it may have already been removed from the relevant web standards, may be in the process of being dropped, or may only be kept for compatibility purposes. Avoid using it, and update existing code if possible; see the [compatibility table](#browser_compatibility) at the bottom of this page to guide your decision. Be aware that this feature may cease to work at any time.

An `identityresult` event is sent to an [`RTCPeerConnection`](../rtcpeerconnection) object's [`onidentityresult`](onidentityresult) event handler to inform it that an assertion has been generated by an associated identity provider (IdP) during the process of creating an [SDP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/SDP) offer or answer.

**Note:** While older versions of the WebRTC specification used events to report assertions, this has been deprecated and removed from the specification. Instead, the [`peerIdentity`](peeridentity) property returns a [`Promise`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) that resolves with an identity or rejects if an error occurs or if unable to validate the identity.

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td>Bubbles</td><td>No</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>Cancelable</td><td>No</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>Interface</td><td><a href="../rtcidentityevent"><code>RTCIdentityEvent</code></a></td></tr><tr class="even"><td>Event handler property</td><td><a href="onidentityresult"><code>onidentityresult</code></a></td></tr></tbody></table>

Specifications
--------------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://w3c.github.io/webrtc-pc/#event-mediastream-identityresult">WebRTC 1.0: Real-time Communication Between Browsers<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'identityresult' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-cr">Candidate Recommendation</span></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

Browser compatibility
---------------------

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`identityresult_event`

No

≤18-79

22

No

43

?

No

No

44

43

?

6.0

See also
--------

-   [WebRTC API](../webrtc_api)

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection/identityresult_event" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection/identityresult_event</a>
