XRInputSourceEventInit.frame
============================

**Secure context**

This feature is available only in [secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts) (HTTPS), in some or all [supporting browsers](#browser_compatibility).

The [`XRInputSourceEventInit`](../xrinputsourceeventinit) dictionary's property `frame` specifies an [`XRFrame`](../xrframe) providing information about the timestamp at which the new input source event took place, as well as access to the [`XRFrame`](../xrframe) method [`getPose()`](../xrframe/getpose) which can be used to map the coordinates of any [`XRReferenceSpace`](../xrreferencespace) to the space in which the event took place.

Of course, as a general rule, you won't need to create `XRInputSourceEventInit` objects yourself. These events are generated by and sent to you by the WebXR infrastructure.

Syntax
------

    xrInputSourceEventInit.frame = xrFrame;

    let xrInputSourceEventInit = { frame: xrFrame };

    let xrInputSourceEvent = new XRInputSourceEvent(type, { frame: xrFrame });

### Value

An [`XRFrame`](../xrframe) indicating the time at which the event took place, and providing a `getPose()` method which can be used to map reference spaces to the world reference space.

Usage notes
-----------

The event frame does not correspond to a visual frame as is delivered to the frame rendering callback function (see [Rendering and the WebXR frame rendering callback](../webxr_device_api/rendering) for details on the callback). Instead, the `XRFrame` specified by the `frame` property is a method to provide access to the [`getPose()`](../xrframe/getpose) method, which you can use to get the relative positions of the objects in the scene at the time the event occurred.

Examples
--------

This example creates a new [`select`](../xrsession/select_event) event and sends it to the [`XRSession`](../xrsession).

    let event = new XRInputSourceEvent("select", {
      frame: eventFrame,
      inputSource: source
    };
    if (event) {
      xrSession.dispatchEvent(event);
    }

Specifications
--------------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://immersive-web.github.io/webxr/#dom-xrinputsourceeventinit-frame">WebXR Device API<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'XRInputSourceEventInit.frame' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-wd">Working Draft</span></td><td>Initial definition.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Browser compatibility
---------------------

No compatibility data found for `api.XRInputSourceEventInit.frame`.  
[Check for problems with this page](#on-github) or contribute missing data to [mdn/browser-compat-data](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data).

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XRInputSourceEventInit/frame" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XRInputSourceEventInit/frame</a>
