# Media Capture and Streams API (Media Stream)

The **Media Capture and Streams** API, often called the **Media Streams API** or **MediaStream API**, is an API related to [WebRTC](webrtc_api) which provides support for streaming audio and video data. It provides the interfaces and methods for working with the streams and their constituent tracks, the constraints associated with data formats, the success and error callbacks when using the data asynchronously, and the events that are fired during the process.

## Concepts and usage

The API is based on the manipulation of a [`MediaStream`](mediastream) object representing a flux of audio- or video-related data. See an example in [Get the video](webrtc_api/taking_still_photos#get_the_video).

A `MediaStream` consists of zero or more [`MediaStreamTrack`](mediastreamtrack) objects, representing various audio or video **tracks**. Each `MediaStreamTrack` may have one or more **channels**. The channel represents the smallest unit of a media stream, such as an audio signal associated with a given speaker, like _left_ or _right_ in a stereo audio track.

`MediaStream` objects have a single **input** and a single **output**. A `MediaStream` object generated by [`getUserMedia()`](mediadevices/getusermedia) is called _local_, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones. A non-local `MediaStream` may be representing a media element, like [`<video>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video) or [`<audio>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/audio), a stream originating over the network, and obtained via the WebRTC [`RTCPeerConnection`](rtcpeerconnection) API, or a stream created using the [Web Audio API](web_audio_api) [`MediaStreamAudioSourceNode`](mediastreamaudiosourcenode).

The output of the `MediaStream` object is linked to a **consumer**. It can be a media elements, like [`<audio>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/audio) or [`<video>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video), the WebRTC [`RTCPeerConnection`](rtcpeerconnection) API or a [Web Audio API](web_audio_api) [`MediaStreamAudioSourceNode`](mediastreamaudiosourcenode).

## Interfaces

In these reference articles, you'll find the fundamental information you'll need to know about each of the interfaces that make up the Media Capture and Streams API.

- [`BlobEvent`](blobevent)
- [`CanvasCaptureMediaStreamTrack`](canvascapturemediastreamtrack)
- <span class="page-not-created">`InputDeviceInfo`</span>
- <span class="page-not-created">`MediaDeviceKind`</span>
- [`MediaDeviceInfo`](mediadeviceinfo)
- [`MediaDevices`](mediadevices)
- [`MediaStream`](mediastream)
- [`MediaStreamConstraints`](mediastreamconstraints)
- [`MediaStreamEvent`](mediastreamevent)
- [`MediaStreamTrack`](mediastreamtrack)
- [`MediaStreamTrackEvent`](mediastreamtrackevent)
- <span class="page-not-created">`MediaTrackCapabilities`</span>
- [`MediaTrackConstraints`](mediatrackconstraints)
- [`MediaTrackSettings`](mediatracksettings)
- [`MediaTrackSupportedConstraints`](mediatracksupportedconstraints)
- <span class="page-not-created">`NavigatorUserMedia`</span>
- <span class="page-not-created">`NavigatorUserMediaError`</span>
- [`OverconstrainedError`](overconstrainederror)
- [`URL`](url)

Early versions of the Media Capture and Streams API specification included separate `AudioStreamTrack` and `VideoStreamTrack` interfaces—each based upon [`MediaStreamTrack`](mediastreamtrack)—which represented streams of those types. These no longer exist, and you should update any existing code to instead use `MediaStreamTrack` directly.

## Events

- `addtrack`
- `ended`
- `muted`
- `overconstrained`
- `removetrack`
- `started`
- `unmuted`

## Guides and tutorials

The articles below provide additional guidance and how-to information that will help you learn to use the API, and how to perform specific tasks that you may wish to handle.

[Capabilities, constraints, and settings](media_streams_api/constraints)  
The twin concepts of **constraints** and **capabilities** let the browser and Web site or app exchange information about what **constrainable properties** the browser's implementation supports and what values it supports for each one. This article discusses capabilities and constraints, as well as media settings, and includes an example we call the Example Constraint exerciser.

## Browser compatibility

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`Media_Streams_API`

55

21

12

15

No

42

15

11

55

≤37

55

25

15

42

14

11

6.0

1.5

`MediaStream`

21

12

44

No

42

11

37

25

42

No

11

6.0

`active`

45

12

52

No

No

11

45

45

52

No

11

5.0

`active_event`

45

≤79

?

No

?

?

45

45

?

No

?

5.0

`addTrack`

26

12

44

No

No

11

37

26

No

No

11

1.5

`addtrack_event`

Yes

12

50

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

50

No

Yes

Yes

`clone`

45

12

48

No

No

11

45

45

48

No

11

5.0

`ended`

Yes-54

Deprecated in Chrome 52.

No

No

No

Yes-39

No

Yes-54

Deprecated in Chrome 52.

Yes-54

Deprecated in Chrome 52.

No

Yes-41

No

Yes-6.0

Deprecated in Samsung Internet 6.0.

`getAudioTracks`

26

12

22

Prior to Firefox 64, this method returned an array of `AudioStreamTrack` objects. However, `MediaStreamTrack` has now subsumed that interface's functionality.

No

Yes

11

37

26

22

Prior to Firefox 64, this method returned an array of `AudioStreamTrack` objects. However, `MediaStreamTrack` has now subsumed that interface's functionality.

No

11

1.5

`getTrackById`

26

12

49

No

No

11

37

26

49

No

11

1.5

`getTracks`

45

12

Yes

No

Yes

11

45

45

Yes

No

11

5.0

`getVideoTracks`

26

12

22

Prior to Firefox 64, this method returned an array of `VideoStreamTrack` objects. However, `MediaStreamTrack` has now subsumed that interface's functionality.

No

Yes

11

37

26

22

Prior to Firefox 64, this method returned an array of `VideoStreamTrack` objects. However, `MediaStreamTrack` has now subsumed that interface's functionality.

No

11

1.5

`id`

Yes-54

12-79

41

No

Yes-39

11

Yes-54

Yes-54

41

Yes-41

11

Yes-6.0

`inactive_event`

45

≤79

?

No

?

?

45

45

?

No

?

5.0

`label`

Yes-54

Deprecated in Chrome 45.

No

?

No

No

No

Yes-54

Deprecated in Chrome 45.

Yes-54

Deprecated in Chrome 45.

?

No

No

Yes-6.0

Deprecated in Samsung Internet 5.0.

`onactive`

45

12

?

No

?

No

45

45

?

No

No

5.0

`onaddtrack`

26

12

50

No

No

11

37

26

50

No

11

1.5

`oninactive`

45

12

?

No

?

No

45

45

?

No

No

5.0

`onremovetrack`

26

12

No

No

No

11

37

26

No

No

11

1.5

`removeTrack`

26

12

Yes

No

Yes

11

37

26

Yes

No

11

1.5

`removetrack_event`

Yes

12

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

`stop`

Yes-47

13-79

?

No

No

No

Yes-47

Yes-47

?

No

No

Yes-5.0

## See also

- [WebRTC](webrtc_api) - the introductory page to the API
- [`mediaDevices.getUserMedia()`](mediadevices/getusermedia)
- [Taking still photos with WebRTC](webrtc_api/taking_still_photos): a demonstration and tutorial about using `getUserMedia()`.

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API</a>
