MediaStreamTrack
================

The `MediaStreamTrack` interface represents a single media track within a stream; typically, these are audio or video tracks, but other track types may exist as well.

Properties
----------

In addition to the properties listed below, `MediaStreamTrack` has constrainable properties which can be set using [`applyConstraints()`](mediastreamtrack/applyconstraints) and accessed using [`getConstraints()`](mediastreamtrack/getconstraints) and [`getSettings()`](mediastreamtrack/getsettings). See [Capabilities, constraints, and settings](media_streams_api/constraints) to learn how to correctly work with constrainable properties. Not doing so correctly will result in your code being unreliable.

<span class="page-not-created">`MediaStreamTrack.contentHint`</span>  
A string that may be used by the web application to provide a hint as to what type of content the track contains to guide how it should be treated by API consumers.

[`MediaStreamTrack.enabled`](mediastreamtrack/enabled)  
A Boolean whose value of `true` if the track is enabled, that is allowed to render the media source stream; or `false` if it is disabled, that is not rendering the media source stream but silence and blackness. If the track has been disconnected, this value can be changed but has no more effect.

**Note:** You can implement standard "mute" functionality by setting `enabled` to `false`. The `muted` property refers to a condition in which there's no media because of a technical issue.

 [`MediaStreamTrack.id`](mediastreamtrack/id) <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
Returns a [`DOMString`](domstring) containing a unique identifier (GUID) for the track; it is generated by the browser.

 <span class="page-not-created">`MediaStreamTrack.isolated`</span> <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
Returns a Boolean value which is `true` if the track is **isolated**; that is, the track cannot be accessed by the document that owns the `MediaStreamTrack`. This happens when the <span class="page-not-created">`peerIdentity`</span> property is set, or if the track comes from a cross-origin source.

 [`MediaStreamTrack.kind`](mediastreamtrack/kind) <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
Returns a [`DOMString`](domstring) set to `"audio"` if the track is an audio track and to `"video"`, if it is a video track. It doesn't change if the track is deassociated from its source.

 [`MediaStreamTrack.label`](mediastreamtrack/label) <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
Returns a [`DOMString`](domstring) containing a user agent-assigned label that identifies the track source, as in `"internal microphone"`. The string may be left empty and is empty as long as no source has been connected. When the track is deassociated from its source, the label is not changed.

 [`MediaStreamTrack.muted`](mediastreamtrack/muted) <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
Returns a Boolean value indicating whether the track is unable to provide media data due to a technical issue.

**Note:** You can implement standard "mute" functionality by setting `enabled` to `false`, and unmute the media by setting it back to `true` again.

 <span class="page-not-created">`MediaStreamTrack.readonly`</span> <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
Returns a Boolean value with a value of `true` if the track is readonly (such a video file source or a camera that settings can't be modified), `false` otherwise.

 [`MediaStreamTrack.readyState`](mediastreamtrack/readystate) <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
Returns an enumerated value giving the status of the track. This will be one of the following values:

-   `"live"` which indicates that an input is connected and does its best-effort in providing real-time data. In that case, the output of data can be switched on or off using the [`enabled`](mediastreamtrack/enabled) attribute.
-   `"ended"` which indicates that the input is not giving any more data and will never provide new data.

 [`MediaStreamTrack.remote`](mediastreamtrack/remote) <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span> <span class="icon deprecated" viewbox="0 0 100 100" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" role="img"> This deprecated API should no longer be used, but will probably still work. </span>   
Returns a Boolean with a value of `true` if the track is sourced by a [`RTCPeerConnection`](rtcpeerconnection), `false` otherwise.

Methods
-------

[`MediaStreamTrack.applyConstraints()`](mediastreamtrack/applyconstraints)  
Lets the application specify the ideal and/or ranges of acceptable values for any number of the available constrainable properties of the `MediaStreamTrack`.

[`MediaStreamTrack.clone()`](mediastreamtrack/clone)  
Returns a duplicate of the `MediaStreamTrack`.

[`MediaStreamTrack.getCapabilities()`](mediastreamtrack/getcapabilities)  
Returns the a list of constrainable properties available for the `MediaStreamTrack`.

[`MediaStreamTrack.getConstraints()`](mediastreamtrack/getconstraints)  
Returns a [`MediaTrackConstraints`](mediatrackconstraints) object containing the currently set constraints for the track; the returned value matches the constraints last set using [`applyConstraints()`](mediastreamtrack/applyconstraints).

[`MediaStreamTrack.getSettings()`](mediastreamtrack/getsettings)  
Returns a [`MediaTrackSettings`](mediatracksettings) object containing the current values of each of the `MediaStreamTrack`'s constrainable properties.

[`MediaStreamTrack.stop()`](mediastreamtrack/stop)  
Stops playing the source associated to the track, both the source and the track are deassociated. The track state is set to `ended`.

Events
------

Listen to these events using [`addEventListener()`](eventtarget/addeventlistener) or by assigning an event listener to the `oneventname` property of this interface:

[`ended`](mediastreamtrack/ended_event)  
Sent when playback of the track ends (when the value [`readyState`](mediastreamtrack/readystate) changes to `ended`).  
Also available using the [`onended`](mediastreamtrack/onended) event handler property.

[`mute`](mediastreamtrack/mute_event)  
Sent to the `MediaStreamTrack` when the value of the [`muted`](mediastreamtrack/muted) property is changed to `true`, indicating that the track is unable to provide data temporarily (such as when the network is experiencing a service malfunction).  
Also available using the [`onmute`](mediastreamtrack/onmute) event handler property.

<span class="page-not-created">`isolationchange`</span>  
Sent whenever the value of the <span class="page-not-created">`isolated`</span> property changes due to the document gaining or losing permission to access the track.  
Also available through the <span class="page-not-created">`onisolationchange`</span> event handler property.

 <span class="page-not-created">`overconstrained`</span> <span class="icon deprecated" viewbox="0 0 100 100" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" role="img"> This deprecated API should no longer be used, but will probably still work. </span>   
Sent when the constraints specified for the track cause the track to be incompatible and therefore to not be used.  
Also available through the [`onoverconstrained`](mediastreamtrack/onoverconstrained) event handler property.

[`unmute`](mediastreamtrack/unmute_event)  
Sent to the track when data becomes available again, ending the `muted` state.  
Also available through the [`onunmute`](mediastreamtrack/onunmute) event handler property.

Specifications
--------------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://w3c.github.io/webrtc-identity/#isolated-track">Identity for WebRTC<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'Isolated tracks' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-cr">Candidate Recommendation</span></td><td>Additional properties for isolated track support</td></tr><tr class="even"><td><a href="https://w3c.github.io/mediacapture-main/#mediastreamtrack">Media Capture and Streams<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'MediaStreamTrack' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-cr">Candidate Recommendation</span></td><td>Initial definition</td></tr></tbody></table>

Browser compatibility
---------------------

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`MediaStreamTrack`

29

12

22

No

16

11

≤37

29

22

16

11

2.0

`applyConstraints`

63

12

50

No

46

11

63

63

50

43

11

7.0

`clone`

45

12

48

No

32

11

45

45

Yes

32

11

5.0

`contentHint`

60

≤79

?

No

47

12.1

60

60

?

44

12.2

8.0

`enabled`

Yes

12

24

No

Yes

11

Yes

Yes

24

Yes

11

Yes

`ended_event`

Yes

12

50

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

50

Yes

Yes

Yes

`getCapabilities`

66

12

No

No

53

11

66

66

No

47

11

9.0

`getConstraints`

53

12

50

No

Yes

11

53

52

50

Yes

11

6.0

`getSettings`

61

12

50

No

48

11

61

61

50

45

11

8.0

`getSources`

Yes-56

?

No

No

Yes-43

No

Yes-56

56

?

Yes-43

No

6.0

`id`

Yes

12

Yes

No

Yes

11

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

11

Yes

`isolated`

?

?

No

No

?

No

?

?

No

?

No

?

`kind`

Yes

12

Yes

No

Yes

11

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

11

Yes

`label`

Yes

12

Yes

No

Yes

11

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

11

Yes

`mute_event`

Yes

12

59

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

59

Yes

Yes

Yes

`muted`

Yes

12

59

No

Yes

11

Yes

Yes

59

Yes

11

Yes

`onended`

Yes

12

50

No

Yes

11

Yes

Yes

50

Yes

11

Yes

`onisolationchange`

?

?

No

No

?

No

?

?

No

?

No

?

`onmute`

Yes

12

59

No

Yes

11

Yes

Yes

59

Yes

11

Yes

`onoverconstrained`

Yes

12

Yes

No

Yes

11

Yes

Yes

?

?

11

Yes

`onunmute`

Yes

12

59

No

Yes

11

Yes

Yes

59

Yes

11

Yes

`readonly`

?

12

?

No

?

No

?

?

?

?

No

?

`readyState`

Yes

12

50

No

Yes

11

Yes

Yes

50

Yes

11

Yes

`remote`

48-59

12-79

Yes

No

35-46

No

48-59

48-59

Yes

35-43

No

5.0-7.0

`stop`

61

12

34

No

45

11

61

61

34

43

11

8.0

`unmute_event`

Yes

12

59

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

59

Yes

Yes

Yes

See also
--------

-   [Media Capture and Streams API](media_streams_api)
-   [`MediaStream`](mediastream)

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrack" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrack</a>
