RTCIdentityEvent
================

**Deprecated**

This feature is no longer recommended. Though some browsers might still support it, it may have already been removed from the relevant web standards, may be in the process of being dropped, or may only be kept for compatibility purposes. Avoid using it, and update existing code if possible; see the [compatibility table](#browser_compatibility) at the bottom of this page to guide your decision. Be aware that this feature may cease to work at any time.

The `RTCIdentityEvent` interface represents an identity assertion generated by an identity provider (idP). This is usually for an [`RTCPeerConnection`](rtcpeerconnection). The only event sent with this type is `identityresult`..

Firefox implements this interface under the following name: `RTCPeerConnectionIdentityEvent.` It is likely that it will correct this name when it will unprefix [`RTCPeerConnection`](rtcpeerconnection), once spec and implementation will have been stabilized.

Properties
----------

*A [`RTCIdentityEvent`](rtcidentityevent) being an [`Event`](event), this event also implements these properties*.

 [`RTCIdentityEvent.assertion`](rtcidentityevent/assertion) <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
Returns the [`DOMString`](domstring) containing a blob being the assertion generated.

Methods
-------

*A [`RTCIdentityEvent`](rtcidentityevent) being an [`Event`](event), this event also implements these properties. There is no specific [`RTCIdentityEvent`](rtcidentityevent) method.*

Examples
--------

    pc.onidentityresult = function( ev ) {
                             alert("A new identity assertion (blob: '" +
                                   ev.assertion +
                                   "') has been generated.");
                          }

Browser compatibility
---------------------

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`RTCIdentityEvent`

No

No

?

No

Yes

?

No

No

?

?

?

No

`assertion`

No

No

?

No

Yes

?

No

No

?

?

?

No

See also
--------

-   [WebRTC](webrtc_api)
-   Its usual target: [`RTCPeerConnection`](rtcpeerconnection).

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCIdentityEvent" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCIdentityEvent</a>
