# RTCIceCandidateInit

The [WebRTC API's](webrtc_api) [`RTCIceCandidateInit`](rtcicecandidateinit) dictionary, which contains the information needed to fundamentally describe an [`RTCIceCandidate`](rtcicecandidate). `RTCIceCandidateInit` is used when using [`new RTCIceCandidate()`](rtcicecandidate/rtcicecandidate) to create a new ICE candidate object. It's also used as the return value from the [`RTCIceCandidate.toJSON()`](rtcicecandidate/tojson) method, and can be passed directly into [`RTCPeerConnection.addIceCandidate()`](rtcpeerconnection/addicecandidate) to add a candidate to the peer connection.

## Properties

[`candidate`](rtcicecandidateinit/candidate) <span class="badge inline optional">Optional</span>  
The ICE `candidate-attribute`. If the candidate is an indicator that there are no further candidates (rather than representing a new candidate), this is the empty string (`""`). The default is the empty string.

[`sdpMid`](rtcicecandidateinit/sdpmid) <span class="badge inline optional">Optional</span>  
The identification tag of the media stream with which the candidate is associated, or `null` if there is no associated media stream. The default is `null`.

[`sdpMLineIndex`](rtcicecandidateinit/sdpmlineindex) <span class="badge inline optional">Optional</span>  
The zero-based index of the m-line within the SDP of the media description with which the candidate is associated, or `null` if no such associated exists. The default is `null`.

[`usernameFragment`](rtcicecandidateinit/usernamefragment) <span class="badge inline optional">Optional</span>  
A [`DOMString`](domstring) containing a string which uniquely identifies the remote peer. This string is generated by WebRTC at the beginning of the session, and at least 24 bits worth of the string contain random data. The string may be up to 256 characters long. This property has no default value and is not present unless set explicitly.

## Specifications

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://w3c.github.io/webrtc-pc/#dom-rtcicecandidateinit">WebRTC 1.0: Real-time Communication Between Browsers<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'RTCIceCandidateInit' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-cr">Candidate Recommendation</span></td><td>Initial definition.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Browser compatibility

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`RTCIceCandidateInit`

Yes

≤18

22

No

Yes

?

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

?

Yes

`candidate`

Yes

≤18

22

Prior to Firefox 68, the `candidate` property was required; Firefox 68 and later make it optional per a mid-2017 specification update.

No

Yes

?

Yes

Yes

Yes

Prior to Firefox 68, the `candidate` property was required; Firefox 68 and later make it optional per a mid-2017 specification update.

Yes

?

Yes

`sdpMid`

Yes

≤18

22

No

Yes

?

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

?

Yes

`sdpMLineIndex`

Yes

≤18

22

No

Yes

?

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

?

Yes

`usernameFragment`

Yes

≤18

67

No

Yes

?

Yes

Yes

67

Yes

?

Yes

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCIceCandidateInit" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCIceCandidateInit</a>
