RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats
===============================

The WebRTC statistics model's `RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats` dictionary extends the underlying <span class="page-not-created">`RTCSentRtpStreamStats`</span> dictionary with properties measuring metrics specific to outgoing [RTP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/RTP) streams.

Properties
----------

*In addition to the properties defined by <span class="page-not-created">`RTCSentRtpStreamStats`</span> and its underlying [`RTCRtpStreamstats`](rtcrtpstreamstats) and [`RTCStats`](rtcstats) dictionaries, `RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats` defines the following properties.*

[`localId`](rtcremoteoutboundrtpstreamstats/localid)  
A [`DOMString`](domstring) which is used to find the local [`RTCInboundRtpStreamStats`](rtcinboundrtpstreamstats) object which shares the same Synchronization Source (SSRC).

[`remoteTimestamp`](rtcremoteoutboundrtpstreamstats/remotetimestamp)  
A [`DOMHighResTimeStamp`](domhighrestimestamp) specifying the timestamp (on the remote device) at which the statistics in the `RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats` object were sent by the remote endpoint. This is different from the [`timestamp`](rtcstats/timestamp) found in the base [`RTCStats`](rtcstats) dictionary; it represents the time at which the object's statistics were received or generated by the local endpoint.

[`reportsSent`](rtcremoteoutboundrtpstreamstats/reportssent)  
An integer value indicating the total number of RTCP Sender Report (SR) blocks that this SSRC has sent.

Usage notes
-----------

The `RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats` object's [`remoteTimestamp`](rtcremoteoutboundrtpstreamstats/remotetimestamp) property provides statistics based on the received data's NTP timestamp taken from an [RTCP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/RTCP) Sender Report (SR) block. Be aware that the remote clock may not be synchronized with the local clock (either in current time or speed at which time elapses).

Specifications
--------------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://w3c.github.io/webrtc-stats/#remoteoutboundrtpstats-dict*">Identifiers for WebRTC's Statistics API<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-cr">Candidate Recommendation</span></td><td>Initial definition.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Browser compatibility
---------------------

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats`

No

No

68

No

No

No

No

No

68

No

No

No

`localId`

No

No

68

No

No

No

No

No

68

No

No

No

`remoteTimestamp`

No

No

79

No

No

No

No

No

79

No

No

No

`reportsSent`

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats</a>
