TextTrack
=========

The `TextTrack` interface—part of the API for handling WebVTT (text tracks on media presentations)—describes and controls the text track associated with a particular [`<track>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/track) element.

Properties
----------

*This interface also inherits properties from [`EventTarget`](eventtarget).*

 <span class="page-not-created">`TextTrack.activeCues`</span> <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
A [`TextTrackCueList`](texttrackcuelist) object listing the currently active set of text track cues. Track cues are active if the current playback position of the media is between the cues' start and end times. Thus, for displayed cues such as captions or subtitles, the active cues are currently being displayed.

 <span class="page-not-created">`TextTrack.cues`</span> <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
A [`TextTrackCueList`](texttrackcuelist) which contains all of the track's cues.

 <span class="page-not-created">`TextTrack.id`</span> <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
A [`DOMString`](domstring) which identifies the track, if it has one. If it doesn't have an ID, then this value is an empty string (`""`). If the `TextTrack` is associated with a [`<track>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/track) element, then the track's ID matches the element's ID.

 <span class="page-not-created">`TextTrack.inBandMetadataTrackDispatchType`</span> <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
Returns a [`DOMString`](domstring) which indicates the track's in-band metadata track dispatch type. ***needs details***

 <span class="page-not-created">`TextTrack.kind`</span> <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
Returns a [`DOMString`](domstring) indicating what kind of text track the `TextTrack` describes. The value must be one of those in the TextTrackKind enum.

 <span class="page-not-created">`TextTrack.label`</span> <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
A human-readable [`DOMString`](domstring) which contains the text track's label, if one is present; otherwise, this is an empty string (`""`), in which case a custom label may need to be generated by your code using other attributes of the track, if the track's label needs to be exposed to the user.

 <span class="page-not-created">`TextTrack.language`</span> <span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
A [`DOMString`](domstring) which specifies the text language in which the text track's contents is written. The value must adhere to the format specified in the [Tags for Identifying Languages](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/bcp47) ([BCP 47](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/bcp47)) document from the IETF, just like the HTML [`lang`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#attr-lang) attribute. For example, this can be `"en-US"` for United States English or `"pt-BR"` for Brazilian Portuguese.

[`TextTrack.mode`](texttrack/mode)  
A [`DOMString`](domstring) specifying the track's current mode. Changing this property's value changes the track's current mode to match. Permitted values are listed under [Text track mode constants](texttrack/mode#text_track_mode_constants). The default is `disabled`, unless the [`<track>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/track) element's [`default`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/track#attr-default) Boolean attribute is specified, in which case the default mode is `started`.

Events
------

`cuechange`  
Fired when cues are entered and exited. A given text cue appears when the cue is entered and disappears when the cue is exited.  
Also available via the `oncuechange` property.

Methods
-------

*This interface also inherits methods from [`EventTarget`](eventtarget).*

<span class="page-not-created">`TextTrack.addCue()`</span>  
Adds a cue (specified as a [`TextTrackCue`](texttrackcue) object to the track's list of cues.

<span class="page-not-created">`TextTrack.removeCue()`</span>  
Removes a cue (specified as a [`TextTrackCue`](texttrackcue) object from the track's list of cues.

Example
-------

tbd

Specifications
--------------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/#texttrack">HTML Living Standard<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'TextTrack' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-living">Living Standard</span></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

Browser compatibility
---------------------

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`TextTrack`

23

12

31

Firefox versions before Firefox 50 didn't display captions when playing media without one or more video tracks being played.

10

≤12.1

6

4.4

25

31

≤12.1

7

1.5

`activeCues`

23

12

31

Starting in Firefox 69, cues are no longer incorrectly loaded when the `TextTrack`'s `mode` is `disabled`; if that's the case, the returned list is empty.

10

≤12.1

6

4.4

25

31

≤12.1

7

1.5

`addCue`

23

12

31

10

≤12.1

6

4.4

25

31

≤12.1

7

1.5

`cuechange_event`

Yes

12

31

?

?

Yes

Yes

Yes

31

No

?

Yes

`cues`

23

12

31

Starting in Firefox 69, cues are no longer incorrectly loaded when the `TextTrack`'s `mode` is `disabled`; if that's the case, the returned list is empty.

10

≤12.1

6

4.4

25

31

≤12.1

7

1.5

`id`

33

12

31

No

20

7

4.4.3

33

31

20

7

2.0

`inBandMetadataTrackDispatchType`

No

12

31

No

No

7

No

No

31

No

7

No

`kind`

23

12

31

10

≤12.1

6

4.4

25

31

≤12.1

7

1.5

`label`

23

12

31

10

≤12.1

6

4.4

25

31

≤12.1

7

1.5

`language`

23

12

31

10

≤12.1

6

4.4

25

31

≤12.1

7

1.5

`mode`

23

12

31

Before Firefox 52, using JavaScript to change the mode of a text track that's part of a media element would send one change event to the element's textTracks TextTrackList for each change, even if mutliple changes are made in a single pass through the Firefox event loop. Starting in Firefox 52, these changes are reflected by a single event.

10

≤12.1

6

4.4

25

31

≤12.1

7

1.5

`oncuechange`

23

12

31

10

≤12.1

6

4.4

25

31

≤12.1

8

1.5

`removeCue`

23

12

31

10

≤12.1

6

4.4

25

31

≤12.1

7

1.5

`sourceBuffer`

No

No

No

No

No

8

No

No

No

No

13

No

See also
--------

-   [WebVTT](webvtt_api)
-   [`TextTrackCueList`](texttrackcuelist)
-   [`VTTCue`](vttcue)
-   [`<track>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/track)
-   [`HTMLTrackElement`](htmltrackelement)

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TextTrack" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TextTrack</a>
