XPathResult
===========

The `XPathResult` interface represents the results generated by evaluating an XPath expression within the context of a given node. Since XPath expressions can result in a variety of result types, this interface makes it possible to determine and handle the type and value of the result.

Properties
----------

 [`XPathResult.booleanValue`](xpathresult/booleanvalue)<span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
A `boolean` representing the value of the result if `resultType` is `BOOLEAN_TYPE`.

 [`XPathResult.invalidIteratorState`](xpathresult/invaliditeratorstate)<span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
Signifies that the iterator has become invalid. It is `true` if `resultType` is `UNORDERED_NODE_ITERATOR_TYPE` or `ORDERED_NODE_ITERATOR_TYPE` and the document has been modified since this result was returned.

 [`XPathResult.numberValue`](xpathresult/numbervalue)<span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
A `number` representing the value of the result if `resultType` is `NUMBER_TYPE`.

 [`XPathResult.resultType`](xpathresult/resulttype)<span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
A `number` code representing the type of the result, as defined by the type constants.

 [`XPathResult.singleNodeValue`](xpathresult/singlenodevalue)<span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
A [`Node`](node) representing the value of the single node result, which may be `null`.

 [`XPathResult.snapshotLength`](xpathresult/snapshotlength)<span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
The number of nodes in the result snapshot.

 [`XPathResult.stringValue`](xpathresult/stringvalue)<span class="badge inline readonly">Read only </span>   
A [`string`](domstring) representing the value of the result if `resultType` is `STRING_TYPE`.

Methods
-------

[`XPathResult.iterateNext()`](xpathresult/iteratenext)  
If the result is a node set, this method iterates over it and returns the next node from it or `null` if there are no more nodes.

[`XPathResult.snapshotItem()`](xpathresult/snapshotitem)  
Returns an item of the snapshot collection or `null` in case the index is not within the range of nodes. Unlike the iterator result, the snapshot does not become invalid, but may not correspond to the current document if it is mutated.

Constants
---------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Result Type Defined Constant</th><th>Value</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><code>ANY_TYPE</code></td><td><code>0</code></td><td>A result set containing whatever type naturally results from evaluation of the expression. Note that if the result is a node-set then <code>UNORDERED_NODE_ITERATOR_TYPE</code> is always the resulting type.</td></tr><tr class="even"><td><code>NUMBER_TYPE</code></td><td><code>1</code></td><td>A result containing a single number. This is useful for example, in an XPath expression using the <code>count()</code> function.</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td><code>STRING_TYPE</code></td><td><code>2</code></td><td>A result containing a single string.</td></tr><tr class="even"><td><code>BOOLEAN_TYPE</code></td><td><code>3</code></td><td>A result containing a single boolean value. This is useful for example, in an XPath expression using the <code>not()</code> function.</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td><code>UNORDERED_NODE_ITERATOR_TYPE</code></td><td><code>4</code></td><td>A result node-set containing all the nodes matching the expression. The nodes may not necessarily be in the same order that they appear in the document.</td></tr><tr class="even"><td><code>ORDERED_NODE_ITERATOR_TYPE</code></td><td><code>5</code></td><td>A result node-set containing all the nodes matching the expression. The nodes in the result set are in the same order that they appear in the document.</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td><code>UNORDERED_NODE_SNAPSHOT_TYPE</code></td><td><code>6</code></td><td>A result node-set containing snapshots of all the nodes matching the expression. The nodes may not necessarily be in the same order that they appear in the document.</td></tr><tr class="even"><td><code>ORDERED_NODE_SNAPSHOT_TYPE</code></td><td><code>7</code></td><td>A result node-set containing snapshots of all the nodes matching the expression. The nodes in the result set are in the same order that they appear in the document.</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td><code>ANY_UNORDERED_NODE_TYPE</code></td><td><code>8</code></td><td>A result node-set containing any single node that matches the expression. The node is not necessarily the first node in the document that matches the expression.</td></tr><tr class="even"><td><code>FIRST_ORDERED_NODE_TYPE</code></td><td><code>9</code></td><td>A result node-set containing the first node in the document that matches the expression.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Specifications
--------------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-3-XPath/xpath.html#XPathResult">Document Object Model (DOM) Level 3 XPath Specification<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'XPathResult' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-rec">Recommendation</span></td><td>Initial definition</td></tr></tbody></table>

Browser compatibility
---------------------

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`XPathResult`

1

12

Yes

No

≤12.1

3

1

18

Yes

≤12.1

1

1.0

`booleanValue`

1

12

1

No

≤12.1

3

1

18

4

≤12.1

1

1.0

`invalidIteratorState`

Yes

12

Yes

No

Yes

3

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

1

Yes

`iterateNext`

1

12

Yes

No

≤12.1

3

1

18

Yes

≤12.1

1

1.0

`numberValue`

1

12

1

No

≤12.1

3

1

18

4

≤12.1

1

1.0

`resultType`

Yes

12

Yes

No

Yes

3

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

1

Yes

`singleNodeValue`

1

12

1

No

≤12.1

3

1

18

4

≤12.1

1

1.0

`snapshotItem`

1

12

Yes

No

≤12.1

3

1

18

Yes

≤12.1

1

1.0

`snapshotLength`

1

12

1

No

≤12.1

3

1

18

4

≤12.1

1

1.0

`stringValue`

1

12

1

No

≤12.1

3

1

18

4

≤12.1

1

1.0

See also
--------

-   [`Document.evaluate()`](document/evaluate)
-   [`XPathExpression`](xpathexpression)
-   [Dottoro Web Reference - XPathResult object](http://help.dottoro.com/ljagksjc.php)

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XPathResult" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XPathResult</a>
