XRVisibilityState
=================

The `XRVisibilityState` enumerated type defines the string values which are valid for the [`XRSession`](xrsession) interface's [`visibilityState`](xrsession/visibilitystate) property, which indicates whether or not an XR session is currently visible to the user, and if it is, whether or not it's currently the primary focus.

Values
------

`hidden`  
The virtual scene generated by the [`XRSession`](xrsession) is not currently visible to the user, so its [`requestAnimationFrame()`](xrsession/requestanimationframe) callbacks are *not* being executed until the[`visibilityState`](xrsession/visibilitystate) changes. Input controllers are *not* being handled for the session.

`visible`  
The virtual scene rendered by the [`XRSession`](xrsession) is currently visible to the user and is the primary focus of the user's attention. To that end, the session's [`requestAnimationFrame()`](xrsession/requestanimationframe) callbacks are being processed at the XR device's native refresh rate and input controllers are being processed as normal.

`visible-blurred`  
While the virtual scene rendered by the [`XRSession`](xrsession) may currently be visible to the user, it is not the user's primary focus at the moment; it's also possible the session is not currently visible at all. In order to optimize resource utilization, the [user agent](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/User_agent) may be handling the session's [`requestAnimationFrame()`](xrsession/requestanimationframe) callbacks at a throttled rate. Input controllers are *not* being processed for the session.

Specifications
--------------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://immersive-web.github.io/webxr/enumdef-xrvisibilitystate">WebXR Device API<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'XRVisibilityState' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-wd">Working Draft</span></td><td>Initial definition.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Browser compatibility
---------------------

No compatibility data found for `api.XRVisibilityState`.  
[Check for problems with this page](#on-github) or contribute missing data to [mdn/browser-compat-data](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data).

See also
--------

-   [`XRSession.onvisibilitychange`](xrsession/onvisibilitychange)
-   [`visibilitychange`](xrsession/visibilitychange_event) event

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XRVisibilityState" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XRVisibilityState</a>
