# Custom properties (--\*): CSS variables

Property names that are prefixed with `--`, like `--example-name`, represent _custom properties_ that contain a value that can be used in other declarations using the [`var()`](<var()>) function.

Custom properties are scoped to the element(s) they are declared on, and participate in the cascade: the value of such a custom property is that from the declaration decided by the cascading algorithm.

<table><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="initial_value">Initial value</a></td><td>see prose</td></tr><tr class="even"><td>Applies to</td><td>all elements</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td><a href="inheritance">Inherited</a></td><td>yes</td></tr><tr class="even"><td><a href="computed_value">Computed value</a></td><td>as specified with variables substituted</td></tr><tr class="odd"><td>Animation type</td><td>discrete</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Syntax

    --somekeyword: left;
    --somecolor: #0000ff;
    --somecomplexvalue: 3px 6px rgb(20, 32, 54);

`<declaration-value>`  
This value matches any sequence of one or more tokens, so long as the sequence does not contain an unallowed token. It represents the entirety of what a valid declaration can have as its value.

**Note**: Custom property names are case sensitive — `--my-color` will be treated as a separate custom property to `--My-color`.

### Formal syntax

    <declaration-value>

## Example

### HTML

    <p id="firstParagraph">This paragraph should have a blue background and yellow text.</p>
    <p id="secondParagraph">This paragraph should have a yellow background and blue text.</p>
    <div id="container">
      <p id="thirdParagraph">This paragraph should have a green background and yellow text.</p>
    </div>

### CSS

    :root {
      --first-color: #16f;
      --second-color: #ff7;
    }

    #firstParagraph {
      background-color: var(--first-color);
      color: var(--second-color);
    }

    #secondParagraph {
      background-color: var(--second-color);
      color: var(--first-color);
    }

    #container {
      --first-color: #290;
    }

    #thirdParagraph {
      background-color: var(--first-color);
      color: var(--second-color);
    }

### Result

## Specifications

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/css-variables-1/#defining-variables">CSS Custom Properties for Cascading Variables Module Level 1<br />
<span class="small">The definition of '--*' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-cr">Candidate Recommendation</span></td><td>Initial definition.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Browser compatibility

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`--*`

49

15

31

No

36

9.1

49

49

31

36

9.3

5.0

`env`

69

79

65

No

56

11.1

11-11.1

69

69

65

48

11.3

11-11.3

10.0

`var`

49

15

31

No

36

9.1

50

49

31

36

9.3

5.0

## See also

- [Using CSS variables](using_css_custom_properties)
- The [`var()`](<var()>) function

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--\*</a>
