# PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions.attestation

**Secure context**

This feature is available only in [secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts) (HTTPS), in some or all [supporting browsers](#browser_compatibility).

`attestation` is an optional property of the [`PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions`](../publickeycredentialcreationoptions) dictionary. This is a string whose value indicates the preference regarding the attestation transport, between the authenticator, the client and the relying party.

The attestation is a mean for the relying party to verify the origin of the authenticator with an attestation certificate authority. The information contained in the attestation may thus disclose some information about the user (e.g. which device they are using).

## Syntax

    attestation = publicKeyCredentialCreationOptions.attestation

### Value

A string which may be

- `"none"`: the relying party is not interested in this attestation. This avoids making a check with the attestation certificate authority and asking the user consent for sharing identifying information.
- `"indirect"`: the client may change the assertion from the authenticator (for instance, using an [anonymization CA](https://w3c.github.io/webauthn/#anonymization-ca)). This value is used when the relying party wishes to verify the attestation.
- `"direct"`: the relying party wants to receive the attestation as generated by the authenticator.

The default value is `"none"`.

## Examples

    var publicKey = {
      attestation: "indirect",
      challenge: new Uint8Array(26) /* this actually is given from the server */,
      rp: {
        name: "Example CORP",
        id  : "login.example.com"
      },
      user: {
        id: new Uint8Array(26), /* To be changed for each user */
        name: "jdoe@example.com",
        displayName: "John Doe",
      },
      pubKeyCredParams: [
        {
          type: "public-key",
          alg: -7
        }
      ]
    };

    navigator.credentials.create({ publicKey })
      .then(function (newCredentialInfo) {
        // send attestation response and client extensions
        // to the server to proceed with the registration
        // of the credential
      }).catch(function (err) {
         console.error(err);
      });

## Specifications

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://w3c.github.io/webauthn/#dom-publickeycredentialcreationoptions-attestation">Web Authentication: An API for accessing Public Key Credentials Level 1<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'attestation' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-rec">Recommendation</span></td><td>Initial definition.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Browser compatibility

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`attestation`

67

≤79

60

No

54

13

No

67

?

48

13

No

## See also

- [`AuthenticatorAttestationResponse.attestationObject`](../authenticatorattestationresponse/attestationobject)

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions/attestation" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions/attestation</a>
