MediaTrackConstraints.latency
=============================

The [`MediaTrackConstraints`](../mediatrackconstraints) dictionary's `latency` property is a [`ConstrainDouble`](../constraindouble) describing the requested or mandatory constraints placed upon the value of the [`latency`](../mediatracksettings/latency) constrainable property.

If needed, you can determine whether or not this constraint is supported by checking the value of [`MediaTrackSupportedConstraints.latency`](../mediatracksupportedconstraints/latency) as returned by a call to [`MediaDevices.getSupportedConstraints()`](../mediadevices/getsupportedconstraints). However, typically this is unnecessary since browsers will ignore any constraints they're unfamiliar with.

Because [RTP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/RTP) doesn't include this information, tracks associated with a [WebRTC](../webrtc_api) [`RTCPeerConnection`](../rtcpeerconnection) will never include this property.

Syntax
------

    var constraintsObject = { latency: constraint };

    constraintsObject.latency = constraint;

### Value

A [`ConstrainDouble`](../constraindouble) describing the acceptable or required value(s) for an audio track's latency, with values specified in seconds. In audio processing, latency is the time between the start of processing (when sound occurs in the real world, or is generated by a hardware device) and the data being made available to the next step in the audio input or output process. In most cases, low latency is desirable for performance and user experience purposes, but when power consumption is a concern, or delays are otherwise acceptable, higher latency might be acceptable.

If this property's value is a number, the user agent will attempt to obtain media whose latency tends to be as close as possible to this number given the capabilities of the hardware and the other constraints specified. Otherwise, the value of this [`ConstrainDouble`](../constraindouble) will guide the user agent in its efforts to provide an exact match to the required latency (if `exact` is specified or both `min` and `max` are provided and have the same value) or to a best-possible value.

Latency is always prone to some variation due to hardware usage demands, network constraints, and so forth, so even in an "exact" match, some variation should be expected.

Example
-------

See [Example: Constraint exerciser](#) in [Capabilities, constraints, and settings](../media_streams_api/constraints) for an example.

Specifications
--------------

<table><thead><tr class="header"><th>Specification</th><th>Status</th><th>Comment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr class="odd"><td><a href="https://w3c.github.io/mediacapture-main/#dom-mediatrackconstraintset-latency">Media Capture and Streams<br />
<span class="small">The definition of 'latency' in that specification.</span></a></td><td><span class="spec-cr">Candidate Recommendation</span></td><td>Initial specification.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Browser compatibility
---------------------

Desktop

Mobile

Chrome

Edge

Firefox

Internet Explorer

Opera

Safari

WebView Android

Chrome Android

Firefox for Android

Opera Android

Safari on IOS

Samsung Internet

`latency`

59

≤79

50

No

Yes

?

59

59

50

?

?

7.0

See also
--------

-   [Media Capture and Streams API](../media_streams_api)
-   [Capabilities, constraints, and settings](../media_streams_api/constraints)
-   [`MediaTrackConstraints`](../mediatrackconstraints)
-   [`MediaDevices.getSupportedConstraints()`](../mediadevices/getsupportedconstraints)
-   [`MediaTrackSupportedConstraints`](../mediatracksupportedconstraints)
-   [`MediaStreamTrack`](../mediastreamtrack)

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaTrackConstraints/latency" class="_attribution-link">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaTrackConstraints/latency</a>
